# Customer_Retention_Project_R

## Introduction
### We are addressing the business problem of customer retention for Regork as they enter the telecommunications market. It is our job to use the given data to predict which customers may leave in the future so that Regork can take action to retain them without wasting money. This is important to the CEO and company as a whole because it is often less expensive to retain customers than it is to attain new ones, and Regork would like to keep their customer base as large as possible without spending all of their funds. We addressed this problem by first exploring the data and looking into any interesting trends we could find. Some of these included the lack of effect gender has on status, the correlation between tenure and status, and total charges and status, and the change in our predicted churn rate after removing customers with no phone service. We then tested three different models, logistic regression model, decision tree model, and random forest model against each other to see which improved our data. We discovered that the logistic regression model was the best, and then dove deeper into it for its generalization error, confusion matrix, and the most influential features involved with it. Using this information, we were able to come up with a plan for the Regork Telecom CEO that will be useful to him to utilize the data and make the decisions on how to retain more customers for less costs. Our proposed solution is to focus our retention efforts on current customers who have a shorter tenure because those with longer tenures are more likely to stick with us. If we work towards keeping the shorter tenured customers, we may be able to increase our retention rates. 

## Data Preparation & Exploratory Analysis

### Data Preparation
#### For our data preparation, we clean the data by getting rid of all of the rows with black cells or N/A values. We then changed the "SeniorCitizen" data column to show "Yes" and "No" instead of 1 and 2 to keep the naming consistent. Finally we changed the "Status" column to show "0" and "1" and mutated it into an integer so that we were able to use it to find correlation between variables. 

### Exploratory Analysis
#### We found a few unique patterns that exist in this data set. One of these is that gender does not affect status as a customer at all. We also found that as tenure goes on, the more likely people are to stay and visa-versa. The shorter tenure a customer has, the more likely they are to leave. Another relationship we found is that Fiber Optic causes more customers to stay. The baseline percentage of customers that churn is about 26.5% and 73.5% of customers that stay. Using the correlation function, we found that the factor with the strongest relationship to status is tenure.

### Optimal Model
#### For the optimal model, we selected the logistic regression model. This is the best model because it had the highest AUC (0.8178), improving our model the most out of the three that we tested. The confusion matrices for this model shows that we have more false negatives than false positives. The predictor variables that appear to be the most influential in customer behavior are Tenure, Contract (Two Year), and Contract (One Year). We think that these variables are influential because the longer a customer has been with a company, the more loyal they usually are. The longer the tenure and contract length of each customer, the more likely they are to stay with Regork. The Regork Telecom CEO could use this information to know which customers are more likely to stay based on how long they have been there, and target the marketing towards customers who have shorter tenure. The generalization error for this model is 0.999 and this is higher than the cross validation error seen in earlier results (0.767). Also from the observations in this section, we learned that we correctly forecasted 959 customers staying and 318 customers leaving.

### Business Analysis Conclusion
#### In terms of relative importance, we used our model to rate the top three predictors as Tenure, Two-Year Contract, and One-Year Contract in that order. The factors we would focus on are mainly these three, trying to extend each customers tenure and contracts as long as possible in attempts to keep them at Regork. We could do this by having lower prices for our longer contracts, for example making the two-year contract slightly less expensive the one-year contract. We could also provide rewards for certain milestones of years that customers have been with Regork, around the five year mark, ten year mark, etc. We collected the customers that we predict to leave, and this number came out to be 523 customers. With this amount of customers leaving, the predicted loss in revenue per month would be about $41,668.70. 
#### If we take no action, the predicted total overall loss would be about $915,649.40. 
#### If we stick with our plan to focus our marketing on customers with lower tenures, we can prevent losing some of these customers. If our marketing is successful, we may be able to keep around 250 of these customers with tenures under twenty-five years that we predicted to leave. This would save us $194,438.30. 
#### Through our research, we found that the average cost of marketing a new product is usually around $100,000, this would be worth our time, efforts, and money. While this is just a ball-park estimate, our predicted loss would be much larger without our marketing to these customers. Because of this, the benefit would be greater than the cost, and our model supports this plan.
